---
title: Using kubectl to Access a Cluster
weight: 3005
aliases:
  - /rancher/v2.x/en/tasks/clusters/using-kubectl-to-access-a-cluster/
---
You can access and manage your Kubernetes clusters using kubectl in two ways:

- [Accessing Clusters with kubectl Shell](#accessing-clusters-with-kubectl-shell)
- [Accessing Clusters with kubectl CLI and a kubeconfig File](#accessing-clusters-with-kubectl-and-a-kubeconfig-file)

## Resources created using kubectl

Rancher will discover and show resources created by `kubectl`. However, these resources might not have all the necessary annotations on discovery. If an operation (for instance, scaling the workload) is done to the resource using the Rancher UI/API, this may trigger recreation of the resources due to the missing annotations. This should only happen the first time an operation is done to the discovered resource.

## Accessing Clusters with kubectl Shell

You can access and manage your clusters by logging into Rancher and opening the kubectl shell. No further configuration necessary.

1. From the **Global** view, open the cluster that you want to access with kubectl.

2. Click **Launch kubectl**. Use the window that opens to interact with your Kubernetes cluster.

    For more information on using kubectl, see [Kubernetes Documentation: Overview of kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/overview/).


## Accessing Clusters with kubectl and a kubeconfig File

Alternatively, you can access your clusters by installing kubectl on your workstation, and then directing it toward a kubeconfig file automatically generated by Rancher. After install and configuration, you can access your clusters without logging into Rancher.

1. Install kubectl on your workstation. For more information, see [Kubernetes Documentation: Install and Set Up kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/).

2. Log into Rancher. From the **Global** view, open the cluster that you want to access with kubectl.

3. Copy the cluster's kubeconfig file to your workstation.

    1. Click **Kubeconfig File**.

    2. Copy the contents displayed to your clipboard.

    3. Paste the contents into a new file on your local computer. Move the file to `~/.kube/config`.

        >**Note:** The default location that kubectl uses for the kubeconfig file is `~/.kube/config`, but you can use any directory and specify it using the `--kubeconfig` flag, as in the sample that follows:
        >
        >```
        kubectl --kubeconfig /custom/path/kube.config get pods
        ```
4. From your workstation, launch kubectl. Use it to interact with your kubernetes cluster.

     For more information on using kubectl, see [Kubernetes Documentation: Overview of kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/overview/).
