---
title: Upgrading to v2.0.7—Namespace Migration
weight:
aliases:
---
>This section applies on to Rancher upgrades from v2.0.6 or earlier to v2.0.7 or later. Upgrades from v2.0.7 to later version are unaffected.

In Rancher v2.0.6 and prior, system namespaces crucial for Rancher and Kubernetes operations were not assigned to any Rancher project by default. Instead, these namespaces existed independently from all Rancher projects, but you could move these namespaces into any project without affecting cluster operations.

These namespaces include:

- `kube-system`
- `kube-public`
- `cattle-system`
- `cattle-alerting`<sup>1</sup>
- `cattle-logging`<sup>1</sup>
- `cattle-pipeline`<sup>1</sup>
- `ingress-nginx`

><sup>1</sup> Only displays if this feature is enabled for the cluster.

However, with the release of Rancher v2.0.7, the `System` project was introduced. This project, which is automatically created during the upgrade, is assigned the system namespaces above to hold these crucial namespaces for safe keeping.

During upgrades from Rancher v2.0.6- to Rancher v2.0.7+, all system namespaces are moved from their default location outside of all projects into the newly created `System` project.  

However, if you assigned any of your system namespaces to a project before upgrading, your cluster networking may encounter issues afterwards.

## Solution

Reset the cluster nodes' network policies to restore connectivity.

>**Prerequisites:**
>
>Download and setup [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/).

{{% tabs %}}
{{% tab "Rancher Server Nodes" %}}
1. From **Terminal**, change directories to your kubectl file that's generated during Rancher install, `kube_config_rancher-cluster.yml`. This file is usually in the directory where you ran RKE during Rancher installation.

1. Before repairing networking, run the following two commands to make sure that your nodes are `Ready` and `Healthy`.

    ```
    kubectl get nodes
    NAME              STATUS    ROLES                      AGE       VERSION
    x                 Ready     controlplane,etcd,worker   40m       v1.11.1
    x                 Ready     controlplane,etcd,worker   40m       v1.11.1
    x                 Ready     controlplane,etcd,worker   40m       v1.11.1
    
    kubectl get cs
    NAME                 STATUS    MESSAGE              ERROR
    scheduler            Healthy   ok
    controller-manager   Healthy   ok
    etcd-0               Healthy   {"health": "true"}
    etcd-2               Healthy   {"health": "true"}
    etcd-1               Healthy   {"health": "true"}
    ```

1. Check the `networkPolicy` for all clusters by running the following command. Point toward `kube_config_rancher-cluster.yml`.

        kubectl --kubeconfig kube_config_rancher-cluster.yml get cluster -o=custom-columns=ID:.metadata.name,NAME:.spec.displayName,NETWORKPOLICY:.spec.enableNetworkPolicy
    
        ID        NAME      NETWORKPOLICY
        c-59ptz   custom    <nil>
        local     local     <nil>
        

1. Disable the `networkPolicy` for all clusters, still pointing toward your `kube_config_rancher-cluster.yml`.

        kubectl --kubeconfig kube_config_rancher-cluster.yml get cluster -o jsonpath='{range .items[*]}{@.metadata.name}{"\n"}{end}' | xargs -I {} kubectl --kubeconfig kube_config_rancher-cluster.yml patch cluster {} --type merge -p '{"spec": {"enableNetworkPolicy": false}}' 

    >**Tip:** If you want to keep `networkPolicy` enabled for all created clusters, you can run the following command to disable `networkPolicy` for `local` cluster (i.e., your Rancher Server nodes):
    >
    >```
     kubectl --kubeconfig kube_config_rancher-cluster.yml patch cluster local --type merge -p '{"spec": {"enableNetworkPolicy": false}}' 
     ``` 

1. Check the `networkPolicy` for all clusters again to make sure the policies have a status of `false `.

        kubectl --kubeconfig kube_config_rancher-cluster.yml get cluster -o=custom-columns=ID:.metadata.name,NAME:.spec.displayName,NETWORKPOLICY:.spec.enableNetworkPolicy
        
        ID        NAME      NETWORKPOLICY
        c-59ptz   custom    false
        local     local     false

1. Now remove all `networkpolicies` from system namespaces.  Run this command for each cluster, using the kubeconfig generated by RKE.

    ```
    for namespace in kube-system kube-public cattle-system cattle-alerting cattle-logging cattle-pipeline ingress-nginx; do
        kubectl --kubeconfig kube_config_rancher-cluster.yml -n $namespace delete networkpolicy --all;
    done
    ```

1. Wait a few minutes and then log into the Rancher UI. 

    - If you can access Rancher, you're done, so you can skip the rest of the steps.
    - If you still can't access Rancher, complete the steps below.

1. Force your pods to recreate themselves by entering the following command.

    ```
    kubectl --kubeconfig kube_config_rancher-cluster.yml delete pods -n cattle-system --all
    ```
    
1. Log into the Rancher UI and view your clusters. Created clusters will show errors from attempting to contact Rancher while it was unavailable. However, these errors should resolve automatically.
 
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Rancher Launched Kubernetes" %}}
<br/>
If you can access Rancher, but one or more of the clusters that you launched using Rancher has no networking, you can repair them by moving the 

- From the cluster's [embedded kubectl shell]({{< baseurl >}}/rancher/v2.x/en/k8s-in-rancher/kubectl/#accessing-clusters-with-kubectl-shell).
- By [downloading the cluster kubeconfig file and running it]({{< baseurl >}}/rancher/v2.x/en/k8s-in-rancher/kubectl/#accessing-clusters-with-kubectl-and-a-kubeconfig-file) from your workstation.

    ```
    for namespace in kube-system kube-public cattle-system cattle-alerting cattle-logging cattle-pipeline ingress-nginx; do
      kubectl --kubeconfig kube_config_rancher-cluster.yml -n $namespace delete networkpolicy --all;
    done
    ``` 
 
{{% /tab %}}
{{% /tabs %}}


